MUTUAL FUNDS and ETFS
A Guide for Investors

Mutual Funds and ExchangeTraded Funds (ETFs)
American investors often turn to mutual funds and exchangetraded funds (ETFs) to save for retirement and other financial
goals. Although mutual funds and ETFs have similarities, they
have differences that may make one option preferable for any
particular investor. This brochure explains the basics of mutual
fund and ETF investing, how each investment option works,
the potential costs associated with each option, and how to
research a particular investment.

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-0213
Toll-free: (800) 732-0330
Website: www.Investor.gov

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 1

Table of Contents
How Mutual Funds and ETFs Work  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .4
How Mutual Funds Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
How ETFs Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Common Features of Mutual Funds and ETFs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

Factors to Consider  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Before Investing in Mutual Funds or ETFs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Different Types of Mutual Funds and ETFs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Different Types of Investment Strategies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
How Mutual Funds and ETFs Can Provide
Returns to Investors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Things That Could Reduce Mutual Funds’ and
ETFs’ Returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Fees and Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Classes of Mutual Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Tax Consequences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Sources of Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Avoiding Common Pitfalls  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .41
Past Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Looking Beyond a Mutual Fund or ETF Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Bank Products Versus Mutual Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

If You Have a Question or Complaint  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44
Glossary of Key Mutual Fund
and ETF Terms  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45

2 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Key Points to Remember
■■ Mutual funds and ETFs are not guaranteed or insured by

the FDIC or any other government agency—even if you buy
through a bank and the fund carries the bank’s name. You
can lose money investing in mutual funds or ETFs.
■■ Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future per-

formance, so don’t be dazzled by last year’s high returns.
But past performance can help you assess a fund’s volatility
over time.
■■ All mutual funds and ETFs have costs that lower your invest-

ment returns. Shop around and compare fees.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 3

How Mutual Funds and ETFs Work
How Mutual Funds Work
A mutual fund is an SEC-registered open-end investment
company that pools money from many investors and invests
the money in stocks, bonds, short-term money-market instruments, other securities or assets, or some combination of
these investments. The combined securities and assets the
mutual fund owns are known as its portfolio, which is managed
by an SEC-registered investment adviser. Each mutual fund
share represents an investor’s proportionate ownership of the
mutual fund’s portfolio and the income the portfolio generates.
Investors in mutual funds buy their shares from, and sell/
redeem their shares to, the mutual funds themselves. Mutual
fund shares are typically purchased from the fund directly or
through investment professionals like brokers. Mutual funds
are required by law to price their shares each business day and
they typically do so after the major U.S. exchanges close. This
price—the per-share value of the mutual fund’s assets minus
its liabilities—is called the NAV or net asset value. Mutual funds
must sell and redeem their shares at the NAV that is calculated
after the investor places a purchase or redemption order. This
means that, when an investor places a purchase order for
mutual fund shares during the day, the investor won’t know
what the purchase price is until the next NAV is calculated.

4 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Types of Investment Companies
There are three basic types of investment companies:
Open-end investment companies or open-end
funds—which sell shares on a continuous basis,
purchased from, and redeemed by, the fund (or
through a broker for the fund);
Closed-end investment companies or closed-end
funds—which sell a fixed number of shares at one
time (in an initial public offering) that later trade on
a secondary market; and
Unit Investment Trusts (UITs)—which make a onetime public offering of only a specific, fixed number
of redeemable securities called units and which will
terminate and dissolve on a date that is specified at
the time the UIT is created.
Mutual funds are open-end funds. ETFs are generally
structured as open-end funds, but can also be structured as UITs. ETFs operate pursuant to SEC exemptive
orders.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 5

How ETFs Work
Like mutual funds, ETFs are SEC-registered investment companies that offer investors a way to pool their money in a fund
that makes investments in stocks, bonds, other assets or some
combination of these investments and, in return, to receive an
interest in that investment pool. Unlike mutual funds, however, ETFs do not sell individual shares directly to, or redeem
their individual shares directly from, retail investors. Instead,
ETF shares are traded throughout the day on national stock
exchanges and at market prices that may or may not be the
same as the NAV of the shares.
ETF sponsors enter into contractual relationships with one
or more Authorized Participants—financial institutions which
are typically large broker-dealers. Typically, only Authorized
Participants purchase and redeem shares directly from the
ETF. In addition, they can do so only in large blocks (e.g., 50,000
ETF shares) commonly called creation units, and they typically
“pay” for the creation units in an in-kind exchange with a group
or basket of securities and other assets that generally mirrors
the ETF’s portfolio.
Once an Authorized Participant receives the block of ETF
shares, the Authorized Participant may sell the ETF shares in
the secondary market to investors. An ETF share is trading at
a premium when its market price is higher than the value of
its underlying holdings. An ETF share is trading at a discount
when its market price is lower than the value of its underlying
holdings. A history of the end-of-day premiums and discounts
that an ETF experiences—i.e., its NAV per share compared to
its closing market price per share—can usually be found on
the website of the ETF or its sponsor. Like a mutual fund, an
ETF must calculate its NAV at least once every day.

6 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

A Word about Exchange-Traded Products (ETPs)
ETFs are just one type of investment within a broader
category of financial products called exchange-traded products (ETPs). ETPs constitute a diverse class
of financial products that seek to provide investors
with exposure to financial instruments, financial
benchmarks, or investment strategies across a wide
range of asset classes. ETP trading occurs on national
securities exchanges and other secondary markets,
making ETPs widely available to market participants
including individual investors.
Other types of ETPs include exchange-traded
commodity funds and exchange-traded notes (ETNs).
Exchange-traded commodity funds are structured as
trusts or partnerships that physically hold a precious
metal or that hold a portfolio of futures or other
derivatives contracts on certain commodities or currencies. ETNs are secured debt obligations of financial institutions that trade on a securities exchange.
ETN payment terms are linked to the performance
of a reference index or benchmark, representing
the ETN’s investment objective. ETNs are complex,
involve many risks for interested investors, and can
result in the loss of the entire investment.
This brochure discusses only ETFs that are registered as open-end investment companies or unit
investment trusts under the Investment Company
Act of 1940. It does not address other types of ETPs,
such as exchange-traded commodity funds or ETNs.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 7

Common Features of Mutual Funds and ETFs
Some common features of mutual funds and ETFs are
described below. Whether any particular feature is an advantage or disadvantage for you will depend on your unique
circumstances—always be sure that the investment you are
considering has the features that are important to you.
■■ Professional Management. Most funds and ETFs are

managed by investment advisers who are registered with
the SEC.
■■ Diversification. Spreading investments across a wide range

of companies or industry sectors can help lower risk if a
company or sector fails. Many investors find it less expensive to achieve such diversification through ownership of
certain mutual funds or certain ETFs than through ownership of individual stocks or bonds.
■■ Low Minimum Investment. Some mutual funds accom-

modate investors who don’t have a lot of money to invest by
setting relatively low dollar amounts for the initial purchase,
subsequent monthly purchases, or both. Similarly, ETF
shares can often be purchased on the market for relatively
low dollar amounts.

8 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

■

Liquidity and Trading Convenience. Mutual fund
investors can readily redeem their shares at the next
calculated NAV—minus any fees and charges assessed on
redemption—on any business day. Mutual funds must send
investors payment for the shares within seven days, but
many funds provide payment sooner. ETF investors can
trade their shares on the market at any time the market is
open at the market price—minus any fees and charges
incurred at the time of sale. ETF and mutual fund shares
traded through a broker are required to settle in two
business days.

■

Costs Despite Negative Returns. Investors in mutual funds
must pay sales charges, annual fees, management fees and
other expenses (discussed on pages 24–32), regardless of
how the mutual fund performs. Investors may also have to
pay taxes on any capital gains distribution they receive.
Investors in ETFs must pay brokerage commissions, annual
fees, management fees and other expenses (discussed on
pages 24–32), regardless of how the ETF performs. ETF
investors may also have to pay taxes on any capital gains
distributions; however, because of the structure of certain
ETFs that redeem proceeds in kind, taxes on ETF investments
have historically been lower than those for mutual fund
investments. It is important to note that the tax efficiency of
ETFs is not relevant if an investor holds the mutual fund or
ETF investment in a tax-advantaged account, such as an IRA
or a 401(k).

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 9

■■ Lack of Control. Investors in both mutual funds and ETFs

cannot directly influence which securities are included in the
funds’ portfolios.
■■ Potential Price Uncertainty. With an individual stock or an

ETF, an investor can obtain real-time (or close to real-time)
pricing information with relative ease by checking financial
websites or by calling a broker. By contrast, with a mutual
fund, the price at which an investor purchases or redeems
shares will depend on the fund’s NAV, which the fund might
not calculate until many hours after an order has been
placed.

10 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Factors to Consider
Before Investing in Mutual Funds or ETFs:
■■ Determine your financial goals and risk tolerance. When

it comes to investing in mutual funds and ETFs, investors
have thousands of choices. Before you invest in any mutual
fund or ETF, you must decide whether the investment strategy and risks are a good fit for you. You should also consider more generally whether the unique style of investing of
the mutual fund’s or ETF’s sponsor is a good fit for you. The
first step to successful investing is to figure out your current
financial goals and risk tolerance—either on your own or
with the help of an investment professional.
■■ Beware of risk. All investments carry some level of risk.

An investor can lose some or all of the money he or she
invests—the principal—because securities held by a fund go
up and down in value. Dividend payments may also fluctuate as market conditions change. Mutual funds and ETFs
have different risks and rewards. Generally, the higher the
potential return, the higher the risk of loss.
■■ Consider the sponsor’s investing style. Before you invest,

you may want to research the sponsor of the mutual fund
or ETF you are considering. The sponsor’s website is often
a good place to begin, and it is helpful to spend some time
browsing through the website to get a better understanding
of the sponsor’s underlying philosophy on investing. Each

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 11

sponsor has its own style of investing that will affect how it
manages its mutual funds and ETFs. It is helpful to understand each sponsor’s style of investing, so you can better
choose the right investment for you.
■■ Ask and check. Before you engage an investment profes-

sional or purchase shares of a mutual fund or ETF, make
sure you research and verify relevant information to determine which option is best suited for you.
• Investment professionals: Details on an investment
professional’s background and qualifications are available on the SEC’s Investment Adviser Public Disclosure
(IAPD) website (www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/) or on the
SEC’s website for individual investors, Investor.gov.
If you have any questions about checking the background of an investment professional, you can call
the SEC’s toll-free investor assistance line at (800)
732-0330 for help.
• Mutual funds and ETFs: You can research a mutual fund
or ETF by reading its prospectus (discussed on pages
37-39) carefully to learn about its investment strategy
and the potential risks. You can find the prospectus on
the mutual fund’s or ETF’s website or on the SEC’s EDGAR
database (www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/mutualsearch.html) and download the documents for free.

12 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

A Word about Derivatives
Derivatives are financial instruments whose performance is derived, at least in part, from the performance of an underlying asset, security, or index. Even
small market movements can dramatically affect their
value, sometimes in unpredictable ways.
There are many types of derivatives with many
different uses. A mutual fund’s or ETF’s prospectus will
disclose whether and how it may use derivatives. An
investor may also want to call a fund and ask how it
uses these instruments.

Different Types of Mutual Funds and ETFs
Mutual funds and ETFs fall into several main categories. Some
are bond funds (also called fixed income funds), and some are
stock funds (also called equity funds). There are also funds that
invest in a combination of these categories, such as balanced
funds and target date funds, and newer types of funds such
as alternative funds, smart-beta funds and esoteric ETFs. In
addition, there are money market funds, which are a specific
type of mutual fund.
■■ Bond Funds

Bond funds invest primarily in bonds or other types of debt
securities. They generally have higher risks than money
market funds (discussed on pages 18-19), largely because

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 13

they typically pursue strategies aimed at producing higher
yields. Unlike money market funds, the SEC’s rules do not
restrict bond funds to high-quality or short-term investments.
Because there are many different types of bonds, bond funds
can vary dramatically in their risks and rewards.
Some of the risks associated with bond funds include:
• Credit Risk—the possibility that companies or other
issuers whose bonds are owned by the fund may fail to
pay their debts (including the debt owed to holders of
their bonds). Credit risk is less of a factor for bond funds
that invest in insured bonds or U.S. Treasury Bonds. By
contrast, those that invest in the bonds of companies
with poor credit ratings generally will be subject to
higher risk;
• Interest Rate Risk—the risk that the market value of the
bonds will go down when interest rates go up. Because
of this, an investor can lose money in any bond fund,
including those that invest only in insured bonds or U.S.
Treasury Bonds. Funds that invest in longer-term bonds
tend to have higher interest rate risk; and,
• Prepayment Risk—the chance that a bond will be paid
off early. For example, if interest rates fall, a bond issuer
may decide to pay off (or retire) its debt and issue new
bonds that pay a lower rate. When this happens, the
fund may not be able to reinvest the proceeds in an
investment with as high a return or yield.

14 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

■■ Stock Funds

Stock funds invest primarily in stocks, which are also known as
equities. Although a stock fund’s value can rise and fall quickly
(and dramatically) over the short term, historically, stocks
have performed better over the long term than other types of
investments—including corporate bonds, government bonds,
and treasury securities.
Stock funds can be subject to various investment risks,
including Market Risk, which poses the greatest potential
danger for investors in stock funds. Stock prices can fluctuate
for a broad range of reasons—such as the overall strength of
the economy or demand for particular products or services.
■■ Balanced Funds

Balanced funds invest in stocks and bonds and sometimes
money market instruments in an attempt to reduce risk but
still provide capital appreciation and income. They are also
known as asset allocation funds and typically hold a relatively
fixed allocation of the categories of portfolio instruments. But
the allocation will differ from balanced fund to balanced fund.
These funds are designed to reduce risk by diversifying among
investment categories, but they still share the same risks that
are associated with the underlying types of instruments.
■■ Target Date Funds

Also called target date retirement funds or lifecycle funds,
these funds also invest in stocks, bonds, and other investments. Target date funds are designed to be long-term investments for individuals with particular retirement dates in mind.
The name of the fund often refers to its target retirement date

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 15

or target date. For example, there are funds with names such
as “Portfolio 2050,” “Retirement Fund 2050,” or “Target 2050”
that are designed for individuals who intend to retire in or near
the year 2050. Most target date funds are designed so that the
fund’s allocation of investments will automatically change over
time in a way that is intended to become more conservative
as the target date approaches. That means that funds typically
shift over time from a mix with a lot of stock investments in the
beginning to a mix weighted more toward bonds.
Even if they share the same target date, target date funds
may have very different investment strategies and risks and
the timing of their allocation changes may be different. They
also may have different investment results and may charge
different fees. Often a target date fund invests in other funds,
and fees may be charged by both the target date fund and the
other funds. In addition, target date funds do not guarantee
that an investor will have sufficient retirement income at the
target date, and investors can lose money. Target date funds
are generally associated with the same risks as the underlying
investments.
■■ Alternative Funds

Alternative funds are funds that invest in alternative investments such as non-traditional asset classes (e.g., global
real estate or currencies) and illiquid assets (e.g., private
debt) and/or employ non-traditional trading strategies (e.g.,
selling short). They are sometimes called “hedge funds for
the masses” because they are a way to get hedge fund-like
exposure in a registered fund. These funds generally seek
to produce positive returns that are not closely correlated to
traditional investments or benchmarks. Many investors may

16 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

see alternative funds as a way to diversify their portfolios while
retaining liquidity. The risks associated with these investments
vary depending on the assets and trading strategies employed.
These funds can employ complicated investment strategies,
and their fees and expenses are commonly higher than traditionally managed funds. In addition, these types of funds
generally have limited performance histories, and it is unclear
how they will perform in periods of market stress.
■■ Smart-Beta Funds

These funds are index funds (discussed below) with a twist.
They compose their index by ranking stock using preset factors
relating to risk and return, such as growth or value, and not
simply by market capitalization as most traditional index funds
do. They aim to achieve better returns than traditional index
funds, but at a lower cost than active funds. These funds
can be more complicated and have higher expenses than
traditional index funds, and the factors are sometimes based
on hypothetical, backward-looking returns. In addition,
these types of funds generally have limited performance
histories, and it is unclear how they will perform in periods
of market stress.
■■ Esoteric ETFs

Esoteric or exotic funds are ETFs that focus on niche investments or narrowly focused strategies. They may be complicated investments and may have higher expenses. In addition,
these ETFs are often thinly traded, which means they can be
harder to sell and may have larger bid-ask spreads (discussed
on page 28-29) than ETFs that aren’t as thinly traded.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 17

A Word about Hedge Funds
Hedge fund is a general, non-legal term used to
describe private, unregistered investment pools
that traditionally have been limited to sophisticated,
wealthy investors. Hedge funds are not mutual funds
and, as such, are not subject to the numerous regulations that apply to mutual funds for the protection of
investors—including regulations requiring that mutual
fund shares be redeemable at any time, regulations
protecting against conflicts of interest, regulations to
assure fairness in the pricing of fund shares, disclosure
regulations, regulations limiting the use of leverage,
and more.
■■ Money Market Funds

Money market funds are a type of mutual fund that has
relatively low risks compared to other mutual funds and ETFs
(and most other investments). By law, they can invest in only
certain high-quality, short-term investments issued by the U.S.
Government, U.S. corporations, and state and local governments. Government and retail money market funds try to keep
their NAV at a stable $1.00 per share, but the NAV may fall
below $1.00 if the fund’s investments perform poorly. Investor
losses have been rare, but they are possible.
• A Government Money Market Fund is a money market
fund that invests 99.5% or more of its total assets in
cash, government securities and/or repurchase agreements that are collateralized solely by government
securities or cash.
18 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

• A Retail Money Market Fund is a money market fund
that has policies and procedures reasonably designed
to limit all beneficial owners of the money market
fund to natural persons.
Other money market funds, however, have a floating NAV like
other mutual funds that fluctuates along with changes in the
market-based value of their portfolio securities.
All money market funds pay dividends that generally
reflect short-term interest rates, and historically the returns
for money market funds have been lower than for either bond
or stock funds. A risk commonly associated with money market funds is Inflation Risk, which is the risk that inflation will
outpace and erode investment returns over time.

Different Types of Investment Strategies
■■ Index-based Funds

Index-based mutual funds and ETFs seek to track an underlying securities index and achieve returns that closely correspond to the returns of that index with low fees. They generally
invest primarily in the component securities of the index and
typically have lower management fees than actively managed
funds. Some index funds may also use derivatives (such as
options or futures) to help achieve their investment objective. Index-based funds with seemingly similar benchmarks
can actually be quite different and can deliver very different
returns. For example, some index funds invest in all of the
companies included in an index; other index funds invest in a
representative sample of the companies included in an index.
Because an index fund tracks the securities on a particular
index, it may have less flexibility than a non-index fund to react
to price declines in the securities contained in the index. Also
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 19

because market indexes themselves have no expenses, even a
passively managed index fund can underperform its index due
to fees and taxes.
■■ Actively Managed Funds

The adviser of an actively managed mutual fund or ETF may
buy or sell components in the portfolio on a daily basis without
regard to conformity with an index, provided that the trades
are consistent with the overall investment objective of the
fund. Unlike similar mutual funds, actively managed ETFs are
required to publish their holdings daily. Because there is no
underlying index that can serve as a point of reference for
investors and other market participants as to the ETF’s holdings, disclosing the specific fund holdings ensures that market
participants have sufficient information to engage in activity,
called arbitrage, that works to keep the market price of ETF
shares closely linked to the ETF’s underlying value.
■■ Leveraged, inverse and inverse leveraged ETFs

Leveraged, inverse, and inverse leveraged ETFs seek to achieve
a daily return that is a multiple or inverse multiple of the daily
return of a securities index. These ETFs are a subset of indexbased ETFs because they track a securities index. They seek
to achieve their stated objectives on a daily basis. Investors
should be aware that the performance of these ETFs over a
period longer than one day will probably differ significantly
from their stated daily performance objectives. These ETFs
often employ techniques such as engaging in short sales and
using swaps, futures contracts and other derivatives that can
expose the ETF, and by extension the ETF investors, to a host
of risks. As such, these are specialized products that typically are
not suitable for buy-and-hold investors.
20 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

A Word on Active and Passive Investing
An active investment strategy relies on the skill of an
investment manager to construct and manage the portfolio of a fund in an effort to provide exposure to certain
types of investments or outperform an investment
benchmark or index. An actively managed fund has
the potential to outperform the market, but its performance is dependent on the skill of the manager. Also,
actively managed funds historically have had higher
management fees, which can significantly lower investment returns. The shareholder is paying for more active
management of portfolio assets, which often leads to
higher turnover costs in the portfolio and potentially
negative federal income tax consequences.
Passive investing is an investment strategy that is
designed to achieve approximately the same return as
a particular market index, before fees. The strategy can
be implemented by replication—purchasing 100% of
the securities in the same proportion as in the index or
benchmark—or by a representative sampling of stocks
in the index. Passive investing also typically comes with
lower management fees. As discussed above, passively
managed mutual funds are typically called index funds.
Most ETFs are also passively managed, although
there are some actively managed ETFs on the market.
Passively managed ETFs typically have lower costs for
the same reasons index mutual funds do. In addition,
index-based ETFs’ costs and taxes can be even lower
than index mutual funds’ because of the manner in
which ETFs operate.
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 21

How Mutual Funds and ETFs Can
Provide Returns to Investors
Investors can make money from their investments in
three ways:
1. Dividend Payments—Depending on the underlying securities, a mutual fund or ETF may earn income in the form of
dividends on the securities in its portfolio. The mutual fund or
ETF then pays its shareholders nearly all of the income (minus
disclosed expenses) it has earned.
2. Capital Gains Distributions—The price of the securities a
mutual fund or ETF owns may increase. When a mutual fund
or ETF sells a security that has increased in price, the mutual
fund or ETF has a capital gain. At the end of the year, most
mutual funds and ETFs distribute these capital gains (minus
any capital losses) to shareholders. ETFs seek to minimize
these capital gains by making in-kind exchanges to redeeming
Authorized Participants instead of selling portfolio securities.
3. Increased NAV/Increased Market Price—If the market
value of a mutual fund’s portfolio increases, after deduction of
expenses and liabilities, then the net asset value of the mutual
fund and its shares increases. If the market value of an ETF’s
portfolio increases, after deduction of expenses and liabilities,
then the net asset value of the ETF increases, and the market
price of its shares may also increase.
With respect to dividend payments and capital gains
distributions, mutual funds usually will give investors a choice:
the mutual fund can send the investor a check or other
form of payment, or the investor can have the dividends or

22 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

A Word about
Exchange-Traded Managed Funds (ETMF)
An exchange-traded managed fund (ETMF) is a
new kind of registered investment company that
is a hybrid between traditional mutual funds and
exchange-traded funds. Like ETFs, ETMFs list and
trade on a national exchange, directly issue and
redeem shares only in creation units, and primarily
use in-kind transfers of the basket of portfolio securities in issuing and redeeming creation units. Like
mutual funds, ETMFs are bought and sold at prices
linked to NAV and disclose their portfolio holdings
quarterly with a 60-day delay. This structure may
allow the product to provide certain cost and tax
efficiencies of ETFs while maintaining the confidentiality of the current holdings similar to mutual funds.
By not having to disclose their holdings on a daily
basis as ETFs do, ETMFs may have an advantage in
trying to outperform their benchmarks over time
because they are less susceptible to front running
by other investors who would be able to trade on
the holdings’ disclosures.

distributions reinvested in the mutual fund to buy more shares
(often without paying an additional sales load). If an ETF investor wants to reinvest a dividend payment or capital gains distribution, the process can be more complicated and the investor
may have to pay additional brokerage commissions. Investors
should check with their ETF or investment professional.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 23

Things That Could Reduce
Mutual Funds’ and ETFs’ Returns
Investors should consider the effect that fees, expenses, and
taxes will have on their returns over time. They can significantly reduce the returns on mutual funds and ETFs.

Fees and Expenses
As with any business, running a mutual fund or ETF involves
costs. Funds pass along these costs to investors by imposing
fees and expenses.
Shareholder fees are fees charged directly to mutual fund
investors in connection with transactions such as buying, selling, or exchanging shares, or on a periodic basis with respect
to account fees. An investor can find these fees and charges
listed in the “Fee Table” section of a mutual fund’s prospectus
or summary prospectus under the heading, “Shareholder
Fees.” ETFs don’t charge these fees directly to investors, but
they may have several types of transaction fees and costs,
which are described below.
Operating expenses are ongoing mutual fund and ETF costs
such as investment advisory fees for managing the fund’s
holdings, marketing and distribution expenses, as well as custodial, transfer agency, legal, and accountant’s fees. Operating
expenses are regular and recurring fund-wide expenses that
are typically paid out of fund assets, which means that investors indirectly pay these costs. These expenses are identified in

24 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

the “Fee Table” section of a mutual fund’s or ETF’s prospectus
or summary prospectus under the heading, “Annual Fund
Operating Expenses.” Although these fees and expenses may
not be listed individually as specific line items on an account
statement, they can have a substantial impact on an investment over time.
Fees and expenses vary from fund to fund. If the funds are
otherwise the same, a fund with lower fees will outperform
a fund with higher fees. Remember, the more investors pay
in fees and expenses, the less money they will have in their
investment portfolio. As noted above, index funds typically
have lower fees than actively managed funds.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 25

PROSPECTUS FEE TABLE
The following discussion details the disclosure required in the
fee table in a mutual fund or ETF prospectus. ETFs don’t charge
shareholder fees (that are required to be included in the fee
table) directly to investors. But, they may have several types of
transaction fees and costs which are also described below.

Fee Table: Shareholder Fees for mutual funds
(fees paid directly from an investment)
■■ Sales Charge (Load) on Purchases—a fee some mutual

funds charge investors when they buy shares, also known as a
front-end load. This fee is typically paid to the broker that sells
the mutual fund’s shares. In this respect, a sales load is like
a commission investors pay when they purchase any type of
security (like a stock or an ETF) from a broker. Front-end loads
reduce the amount of an investment. For example, let’s say
an investor has $1,000 and wants to invest it in a mutual fund
with a 5% front-end load. The $50 sales load the investor must
pay comes off the top of the investment leaving the remaining
$950 to be invested in the mutual fund.
■■ Purchase Fee—a fee some mutual funds charge investors

when they buy shares. Unlike a front-end sales load, a purchase fee is paid into fund assets (not to a broker) and is typically imposed to defray some of the mutual fund’s costs associated with the purchase. This fee is often imposed by a mutual
fund that has high transaction costs, for example, because of
its investment strategy. The fee is designed so that the other
investors’ investments in the mutual fund are not diminished
by the transaction costs of the purchase. Like front-end sales
loads, purchase fees reduce the amount of the investment.

26 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

■■ Deferred Sales Charge (Load)—a fee some mutual funds

charge investors when they sell or redeem their shares, also
known as a back-end load. This fee is typically paid to the
broker that sells the mutual fund’s shares. The most common
type of back-end sales load is the contingent deferred sales
load (also known as the CDSC or CDSL). The amount of this
type of sales load will depend on how long the investor holds
his or her shares. It typically decreases to zero if the investor
holds his or her shares for a specified time period. When an
investor purchases shares that are subject to a back-end sales
load rather than a front-end sales load, no sales load is deducted at purchase, and all of the investors’ money is immediately
used to purchase fund shares (assuming that no other fees or
charges apply at the time of purchase). However, a back-end
sales load will reduce an investor’s return on the investment.
Typically, a fund calculates the amount of a back-end sales
load based on the lesser of the value of the investor’s initial
investment or the value of the investment at redemption.
■■ Redemption Fee—a fee some mutual funds charge inves-

tors when they sell or redeem their shares within a certain
time frame of purchasing the shares. Unlike a deferred sales
load, a redemption fee is paid into fund assets (not to the
broker) and is typically used to defray fund costs associated
with an investor’s redemption. The SEC limits redemption
fees to 2%.
■■ Exchange Fee—a fee some mutual funds charge investors

when they exchange (transfer) their investment to another
fund within the same fund group or family of funds.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 27

■■ Account Fee—a fee some mutual funds charge investors

in connection with the maintenance of their accounts. For
example, some funds impose an account maintenance fee on
accounts whose value is less than a certain dollar amount.

Transaction fees and costs for
ETFs not reflected in the Fee Table
■■ Brokerage Commissions—ETF investors typically pay their

brokers sales commissions with each purchase or sale of ETF
shares, although some ETFs may be available commission-free.
In this respect, a commission is like a sales load investors pay
when purchasing or redeeming a mutual fund. Like front-end
sales loads, brokerage commissions on a purchase reduce the
amount of the investment. Like back-end sales loads, brokerage commissions on a sale reduce an investor’s return on the
investment. A brokerage commission may be structured as a
flat fee charged every time an investor trades. With a flat fee,
the smaller the amount traded, the larger the percentage cost
per trade is. Investors should consider the fee structure of a
commission when purchasing or selling ETF shares. Check
with your broker regarding these fees. Brokers should provide
written notice to customers of these charges when accounts
are opened and when any of the charges change.
■■ Bid-ask spread—ETFs and other securities that trade on

a securities market actually have two market prices—the bid
price and the ask price. The term bid refers to the highest price
a buyer will pay to buy a specified number of ETF shares at any
given time. The term ask refers to the lowest price at which a
seller will sell the ETF shares. The bid price will be lower than

28 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

the ask price and the difference between two prices is called
the spread. An example is an ETF share that is trading for
$59.50/$60. The bid price is $59.50, the ask price is $60.00,
and the spread is 50 cents. If an investor buys 200 ETF shares
at the ask price of $60 and sells them immediately at the bid
price of $59.50, the investor would incur a loss of $100. This
example demonstrates the impact of the spread on an ETF
investment. ETFs that are more liquid and have higher trading
volume have tighter or smaller spreads. The spread can be
thought of as a hidden cost to investors since spreads reduce
potential returns.
■■ Changes in discounts and premiums to NAV—For a

variety of reasons, an ETF’s market price may reflect a
premium or a discount to the ETF’s underlying value or NAV.
This is a potential cost but also a potential gain. An ETF share
is trading at a premium when its market price is higher than
the NAV or the value of its underlying holdings. An ETF share
is trading at a discount when its market price is lower than
the NAV or value of its underlying holdings. An investor may,
therefore, pay more or less than the NAV when buying shares
or receive more or less than NAV when selling shares.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 29

A Word about Exchanging Shares
A family of funds is a group of mutual funds that
share administrative and distribution systems. Each
fund in a family may have different investment objectives and follow different strategies.
Some funds offer exchange privileges within a
family of funds, allowing shareholders to directly
transfer their holdings from one fund to another as
their investment goals or tolerance for risk change.
While some funds impose fees for exchanges,
most funds typically do not. To learn more about
a fund’s exchange policies, call the fund’s toll-free
number, visit its website, or read the “Shareholder
Information” section of the prospectus.
Bear in mind that exchanges have tax consequences. Even if the fund doesn’t charge for the
transfer, the investor will be liable for any capital
gain on the sale of the old shares or, depending
on the circumstances, eligible to take a capital loss
(taxes are discussed generally on pages 36-37).

30 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Fee Table: Annual Fund Operating Expenses
(annual expenses paid as a percentage of the
value of an investment)
■■ Management Fees—fees paid out of mutual fund or ETF

assets to the fund’s investment adviser for investment portfolio management. They can also include any other management fees payable to the fund’s investment adviser or its
affiliates and administrative fees payable to the investment
adviser that are not included in the Other Expenses category
(discussed below).
■■ Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees—fees paid out

of mutual fund or ETF assets to cover the costs of distribution
(e.g., marketing and selling fund shares) and sometimes to
cover the costs of providing shareholder services. Distribution
Fees include fees to compensate brokers and others who sell
fund shares and to pay for advertising, the printing and mailing
of prospectuses to new investors, and the printing and mailing
of sales literature. Shareholder Service Fees are fees paid to
persons to respond to investor inquiries and provide investors
with information about their investments. Shareholder service
fees can be paid outside of 12b-1 fees, and if they are, they are
included in the Other Expenses category (discussed below).
■■ Other Expenses—fees paid out of mutual fund or ETF

assets that are not already included under Management Fees
or Distribution or Service (12b-1) Fees (such as any shareholder service expenses that are not already included in the 12b-1
fees), custodial expenses, legal and account expenses, transfer
agent expenses and other administrative expenses.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 31

■■ Total Annual Fund Operating Expenses (Expense

Ratio)—the line of the fee table that represents the total of
a mutual fund’s or ETF’s annual fund operating expenses,
expressed as a percentage of the fund’s average net assets.
Looking at the expense ratio can help investors make comparisons among various mutual funds and ETFs.
Investors should be sure to review carefully the fee tables
of any mutual funds or ETFs they’re considering, including
no-load mutual funds. Even small differences in fees can
translate into large differences in returns over time. For
example, if an investor invested $10,000 in a fund that
produced a 5% annual return before expenses and had
annual operating expenses of 1.5%, then after 20 years the
investor could have roughly $19,612. But if the fund had
expenses of only 0.5%, then the investor would end up with
$24,002—a 23% difference.

A Word about No-Load Mutual Funds
Some mutual funds call themselves no-load. As the
name implies, this means that the mutual fund does
not charge any type of sales load. But, as discussed
above, not every type of shareholder fee is a sales
load. A no-load fund may charge direct fees that are
not sales loads, such as purchase fees, redemption
fees, exchange fees, and account fees. No-load
funds also will have annual fund operating expenses
that investors pay for indirectly through fund assets.

32 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Classes of Mutual Funds
Although ETFs offer only one class of shares, many mutual
funds offer more than one class of shares. Each class will
invest in the same portfolio of securities and will have the
same investment objectives and policies. But each class
will have different shareholder services and/or distribution
arrangements with different fees and expenses. Because of
the different fees and expenses, each class will likely have
different performance results. A multi-class structure offers
investors the ability to select a fee and expense structure that
is most appropriate for their investment goals (including the
time that they expect to remain invested in the fund). Here are
some key characteristics of the most common mutual fund
share classes offered to individual investors:
■■ Class A Shares—Class A shares typically charge a front-end

sales load, but they tend to have a lower 12b-1 fee and lower
annual expenses than other mutual fund share classes. Some
mutual funds reduce the front-end load as the size of the
investment increases. These discounts are called breakpoints
(discussed below).
■■ Class B Shares—Class B shares typically do not have a front-

end sales load. Instead, they may charge a contingent deferred
sales load and a 12b-1 fee (along with other annual expenses).
Typically the amount of the contingent deferred sales load decreases the longer an investor holds the shares. Class B shares
also might convert automatically to a class with a lower 12b-1
fee and no contingent deferred sales load if the investor holds
the shares long enough.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 33

■■ Class C Shares—Class C shares might have a 12b-1 fee, oth-

er annual expenses, and either a front-end or back-end sales
load. But the front-end or back-end load for Class C shares
tends to be lower than for Class A or Class B shares, respectively. Unlike Class B shares, Class C shares generally do not
convert to another class; as a result, the back-end load will not
decrease over time. Class C shares tend to have higher annual
expenses than either Class A or Class B shares.
■■ Other Classes—Other classes may also exist for some funds.

34 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

A Word about Breakpoints
Some mutual funds that charge front-end sales
loads will charge lower sales loads for larger investments. In the prospectus fee table, they are referred
to as sales charge discounts, but the investment
levels required to obtain a reduced sales load are
more commonly referred to as breakpoints.
The SEC does not require a mutual fund to offer
breakpoints in its sales load. But, if the mutual fund
offers breakpoints, the mutual fund must disclose
them and brokers must apply them. In addition,
a brokerage firm is not allowed to sell shares of a
mutual fund in an amount that is just below the
mutual fund’s breakpoint simply to earn a higher
commission.
Each fund company establishes its own formula
for how it will calculate whether an investor is
entitled to receive a breakpoint. For that reason, it is
important for investors to seek out breakpoint information from their financial advisors or the mutual
fund itself. An investor will need to ask how a particular mutual fund establishes eligibility for breakpoint discounts, as well as what the mutual fund’s
breakpoint amounts are. Some of this information
is also included in the “Fee Table” section of the
mutual fund’s prospectus or summary prospectus.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 35

Tax Consequences
When an investor buys and holds an individual stock or bond,
the investor must pay income tax each year on the dividends
or interest received. But the investor won’t have to pay any
capital gains tax until he or she actually sells and unless he
or she makes a profit. Mutual funds and ETFs are somewhat
different.
As with an individual stock, when an investor buys and
holds mutual fund or ETF shares the investor will owe income
tax each year on any dividends received. In addition, the investor will also owe taxes on any personal capital gains in years
when an investor sells shares.
However, unlike with an individual stock, an investor may
also have to pay taxes each year on the mutual fund’s or ETF’s
capital gains even if the mutual fund or ETF has had a negative
return and the investor hasn’t sold any shares. That’s because
the law requires mutual funds and ETFs to distribute any net
capital gains on the sale of portfolio securities to shareholders.
ETFs are typically more tax efficient in this regard than mutual
funds because ETF shares are frequently redeemed in-kind
by the Authorized Participants. This means that an ETF may
deliver specified portfolio securities to Authorized Participants
who are redeeming creation units instead of selling portfolio
securities to meet redemption demands. The selling of portfolio securities could otherwise result in taxable capital gains
to the ETF that would typically be passed through to the retail
investor. Nevertheless, the tax efficiency of ETFs is not relevant
if an investor holds the mutual fund or ETF investment in a
tax-advantaged account, such as an IRA or a 401(k).
SEC rules require mutual funds and ETFs to disclose in their
prospectuses after-tax returns. In calculating after-tax returns,
mutual funds and ETFs must use standardized formulas
36 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

similar to the ones used to calculate before-tax average annual
total returns. A fund’s after-tax returns are discussed in the
“Investments, Risks and Performance” section of the prospectus. When comparing mutual funds and/or ETFs, be sure to
take taxes into account.
A Word about Tax Exempt Funds
If an investor invests in a tax-exempt fund—such as
a municipal bond fund—some or all of the dividends
will be exempt from federal (and sometimes state
and local) income tax. The investor will, however,
owe taxes on any capital gains.

Sources of Information
■■ Prospectus and Summary Prospectus

Mutual funds must provide a copy of the fund’s prospectus to
shareholders after they purchase shares, but investors can—
and should—request and read the mutual fund’s prospectus
before making an investment decision. There are two kinds of
prospectuses: (1) the statutory prospectus; and (2) the summary prospectus. The statutory prospectus is the traditional,
long-form prospectus with which most mutual fund investors
are familiar. The summary prospectus, which is used by many
mutual funds, is just a few pages long and contains key information about a mutual fund. The SEC specifies the kinds of
information that must be included in mutual fund prospectuses and requires mutual funds to present the information
in a standard format so that investors can readily compare
different mutual funds.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 37

The same key information required in the summary prospectus is required to be in the beginning of the statutory
prospectus. It appears in the following standardized order:
(1) investment objectives/goals; (2) fee table; (3) investments,
risks, and performance; (4) management—investment advisers
and portfolio managers; (5) purchase and sale of fund shares;
(6) tax information; and (7) financial intermediary compensation. Investors can also find more detailed information in the
statutory prospectus, including financial highlights information.
An ETF will also have a prospectus, and some ETFs may
have a summary prospectus, both of which are subject to the
same legal requirements as mutual fund prospectuses and
summary prospectuses. All investors who purchase creation
units (i.e., Authorized Participants) receive a prospectus. Some
broker-dealers also deliver a prospectus to secondary market
purchasers. All ETFs are required to deliver a prospectus upon
request and without charge, and the prospectus will usually be
available on the ETF’s website.
While they may seem daunting at first, mutual fund and
ETF prospectuses contain valuable information. Here’s some of
what is included in mutual fund and ETF prospectuses:
•

Investment Objective—The prospectus will
describe the mutual fund’s or ETF’s investment
objectives or goals. A fund may also identify its type
or category (e.g., that it is a money market fund or
balanced fund).

•

Fee Table—This table describes the mutual fund’s
or ETF’s fees and expenses, which include the shareholder fees and annual fund operating expenses
(discussed on pages 26-32). The fee table includes

38 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

an example that will help investors compare costs
among different mutual funds or ETFs by showing
them the costs associated with investing a hypothetical $10,000 over a 1-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year period.
•

Key Risks—The prospectus will discuss the mutual
fund’s or ETF’s principal investment risks.

•

Financial Highlights Information—This section,
which generally appears towards the back of the
prospectus, contains audited data concerning the
mutual fund’s or ETF’s financial performance for each
of the past 5 years. Here an investor will find net
asset values (for both the beginning and end of each
period), total returns, and various ratios, including
the ratio of expenses to average net assets, the ratio
of net income to average net assets, and the portfolio turnover rate.

■■ Statement of Additional Information (SAI)

The SAI explains a mutual fund’s or ETF’s operations in greater
detail than the prospectus—including the mutual fund’s or
ETF’s financial statements and details about the history of
the mutual fund or ETF, its policies on borrowing and concentration, the identity of officers, directors and persons who
control the mutual fund or ETF, investment advisory and other
services, brokerage commissions paid on portfolio securities
transactions, tax matters, and performance such as yield and
average annual total return information. If an investor asks,
the mutual fund or ETF must send an SAI. The back cover of
the mutual fund’s or ETF’s prospectus should contain information on how to obtain the SAI.
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 39

■■ Shareholder Reports

A mutual fund also must provide shareholders with annual
and semi-annual reports within 60 days after the end of the
fund’s fiscal year and 60 days after the fund’s fiscal mid-year.
These reports contain updated financial information, a list
of the fund’s portfolio securities, and other information. The
information in the shareholder reports will be current as of
the date of the report (that is, the last day of the fund’s fiscal
year for the annual report, and the last day of the fund’s fiscal
mid-year for the semi-annual report). Investors can obtain all
of these documents by:
•

Visiting the mutual fund’s or ETF’s website;

•

Calling or writing to the mutual fund or ETF (all mutual funds and ETFs have toll-free telephone numbers);

•

Contacting a broker that sells the mutual fund’s or
ETF’s shares;

•

Searching the SEC’s EDGAR database (www.sec.gov/
edgar/searchedgar/mutualsearch.html) and downloading the documents for free; or

•

Contacting the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and
Advocacy by telephone (800) 732-0330.

40 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Avoiding Common Pitfalls
Past Performance
A mutual fund’s or ETF’s past performance is not as important
as one might think. Advertisements, rankings, and ratings
often emphasize how well a mutual fund or ETF has performed in the past. But studies show that the future is often
different. This year’s number one mutual fund or ETF can
easily become next year’s below average mutual fund or ETF.
For mutual funds and ETFs, be sure to find out how long
the fund has been in existence. Newly created or small mutual
funds or ETFs sometimes have excellent short-term performance records. Because newly created mutual funds and ETFs
may invest in only a small number of stocks, a few successful
stocks can have a large impact on their performance. But as
these mutual funds and ETFs grow larger and increase the
number of stocks they own, each stock has less impact on
performance. This may make it more difficult to sustain initial results.
While past performance does not necessarily predict
future returns, it can tell an investor how volatile (or stable) a
mutual fund or ETF has been over a period of time. Generally,
the more volatile a fund, the higher the investment risk. If you
will need your money to meet a financial goal in the near-term,
you probably can’t afford the risk of investing in a fund with a
volatile history because you will not have enough time to ride
out any declines in the stock market.
For index mutual funds and index ETFs, remember that
these funds are designed to track a particular market index
and their past performance is related to how well that market
index did.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 41

Looking Beyond A Mutual Fund or ETF Name
Don’t assume that a mutual fund called the “ZYX Stock Fund”
invests only in stocks or that the “Martian High-Yield Fund”
invests only in the securities of companies headquartered on
the planet Mars. The SEC generally requires that any mutual
fund or ETF with a name suggesting that it focuses on a particular type of investment must invest at least 80% of its assets
in the type of investment suggested by its name. But mutual
funds and ETFs can still invest up to one-fifth of their holdings
in other types of securities—including securities that a particular investor might consider too risky or perhaps not aggressive enough.

Bank Products Versus Mutual Funds
Many banks now sell mutual funds, some of which carry
the bank’s name. But mutual funds sold in banks, including
money market funds, are not bank deposits. As a result, they
are not federally insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC).

42 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Money Market Matters
Don’t confuse a money market fund with a money
market deposit account. The names are similar, but
they are completely different.
A money market fund is a type of mutual fund.
It is not guaranteed or FDIC-insured. When an
investor buys shares in a money market fund,
he or she should receive a prospectus.
A money market deposit account is a bank deposit.
It is guaranteed and FDIC-insured. When a saver
deposits money in a money market deposit
account, he or she should receive a Truth in
Savings form.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 43

If You Have a Question or
Complaint
If you have a question or complaint about your mutual
fund or ETF, you can send it to us using this online form
(www.sec.gov/complaint/select.shtml). You can also reach
us by regular mail, by telephone, or by fax at:
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549-0213
Toll-free: (800) 732-0330
Fax: (202) 772-9295
For more information about investing wisely and avoiding
fraud, please check out Investor.gov.

44 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Glossary of Key Mutual Fund and
ETF Terms
12b-1 Fees—fees paid out of mutual fund or ETF assets to
cover the costs of marketing and selling mutual fund shares
and sometimes to cover the costs of providing shareholder
services. Distribution fees include fees to compensate brokers
and others who sell fund shares and to pay for advertising,
the printing and mailing of prospectuses to new investors,
and the printing and mailing of sales literature. Shareholder
Service Fees are fees paid to persons to respond to investor
inquiries and provide investors with information about their
investments.
Account Fee—a fee that some mutual funds separately
charge investors for the maintenance of their accounts. For
example, accounts below a specified dollar amount may have
to pay an account fee.
Authorized Participants—financial institutions, which are
typically large broker-dealers, who enter into contractual
relationships with ETFs to buy and redeem creation units of
ETF shares.
Back-end Load—a sales charge (also known as a deferred
sales charge) investors pay when they redeem (or sell) mutual
fund shares; generally used by the mutual fund to compensate brokers.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 45

Brokers—an individual who acts as an intermediary between
a buyer and seller, usually charging a commission to execute trades.
Brokerage Commissions—A fee investors pay their brokers
with each purchase or sale of ETF shares.
Classes—different types of shares issued by a single mutual
fund, often referred to as Class A shares, Class B shares, and so
on. Each class invests in the same pool (or investment portfolio) of securities and has the same investment objectives and
policies. But each class has different shareholder services and/
or distribution arrangements with different fees and expenses
and therefore different performance results.
Closed-End Fund—a type of investment company that does
not continuously offer its shares for sale but instead sells a
fixed number of shares at one time (in the initial public offering) which then typically trade on a secondary market, such as
the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market—
legally known as a closed-end investment company.
Contingent Deferred Sales Load—a type of back-end load,
the amount of which depends on the length of time the investor held his or her mutual fund shares. For example, a contingent deferred sales load might be (X)% if an investor holds his
or her shares for one year, (X-1)% after two years, and so on
until the load reaches zero and goes away completely.

46 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Conversion—a feature some mutual funds offer that allows
investors to automatically change from one class to another
(typically with lower annual expenses) after a set period of
time. The mutual fund’s prospectus or summary prospectus
will state whether a class ever converts to another class.
Creation Units—large blocks of shares of an ETF, typically
50,000 shares or more, usually sold in in-kind exchanges to
Authorized Participants.
Deferred Sales Charge—see back-end load (above).
Discount to NAV—when an ETF’s market price is trading
lower than the value of the underlying holdings.
Distribution Fees—fees paid out of mutual fund or ETF assets
to cover expenses for marketing and selling mutual fund or
ETF shares, including advertising costs, compensation for brokers and others who sell mutual fund shares, and payments
for printing and mailing prospectuses to new investors and
sales literature prospective investors—sometimes referred to
as 12b-1 fees.
Exchange Fee—a fee that some mutual funds charge shareholders if they exchange (transfer) to another mutual fund
within the same fund group.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 47

Exchange-Traded Funds—a type of an investment company
(either an open-end company or UIT) that differs from traditional mutual funds, because shares issued by ETFs trade on
a secondary market and are only redeemable by Authorized
Participants from the fund itself in very large blocks (blocks of
50,000 shares for example) called creation units.
Expense Ratio—a mutual fund’s or ETF’s total annual operating expenses (including management fees, distribution (12b-1)
fees, and other expenses) expressed as a percentage of average net assets.
Front-end Load—an upfront sales charge investors pay when
they purchase mutual fund shares, generally used by the
mutual fund to compensate brokers. A front-end load reduces
the amount available to purchase fund shares.
Index Fund or ETF—describes a type of mutual fund or ETF
whose investment objective typically is to achieve the same
return as a particular market index, such as the S&P 500
Composite Stock Price Index, the Russell 2000 Index, or the
Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index.
Investment Adviser—generally, a person or entity who
receives compensation for giving individually tailored advice
to a specific person on investing in stocks, bonds, or mutual
funds. Some investment advisers also manage portfolios of
securities, including mutual funds.

48 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

Investment Company—a company (corporation, business
trust, partnership, or limited liability company) that issues
securities and is primarily engaged in the business of investing
in securities. The three basic types of investment companies
are open-end funds (mutual funds and most ETFs), closed-end
funds, and unit investment trusts (some ETFs).
Load—see Sales Charge.
Management Fee—fee paid out of mutual fund or ETF assets
to the fund’s investment adviser or its affiliates for managing
the fund’s portfolio, any other management fee payable to
the fund’s investment adviser or its affiliates, and any administrative fee payable to the investment adviser that are not
included in the “Other Expenses” category. A fund’s management fee appears as a category under “Annual Fund Operating
Expenses” in the Fee Table.
Market Index—a measurement of the performance of a
specific basket of stocks or bonds considered to represent
a particular market or sector of the U.S. stock market or the
economy. For example, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)
is an index of 30 blue chip U.S. stocks of industrial companies
(excluding transportation and utility companies).
Mutual Fund—the common name for an open-end investment company. Like other types of investment companies,
mutual funds pool money from many investors and invest
the money in stocks, bonds, short-term money-market instruments, or other securities. Mutual funds issue redeemable
shares that investors purchase directly from the fund (or

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 49

through a broker for the fund) instead of purchasing from
investors on a secondary market.
NAV (Net Asset Value)—the per-share value of the mutual
fund’s or ETF’s assets minus its liabilities. SEC rules require
mutual funds and ETFs to calculate the NAV at least once daily.
To calculate the NAV per share, a fund subtracts the fund’s
liabilities from its assets and then divides the result by the
number of shares outstanding.
No-load Fund—a mutual fund that does not charge any type
of sales load. But not every type of shareholder fee is a sales
load, and a no-load fund may charge fees that are not sales
loads. No-load funds also charge operating expenses.
Open-End Company—the legal name for a mutual fund
and most ETFs. An open-end company is a type of investment company.
Operating Expenses—the costs a mutual fund or ETF incurs
in connection with running the fund, including management
fees, distribution (12b-1) fees, and other expenses.
Portfolio—an individual’s or entity’s combined holdings of
stocks, bonds, or other securities and assets.
Premium to NAV—when an ETF’s market price is trading
higher than the value of the underlying holdings.
Prospectus—disclosure document that describes the mutual
fund or ETF. Each mutual fund or ETF has a prospectus. The

50 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

prospectus contains information about the fund’s costs,
investment objectives, risks, and performance. You can get a
prospectus from the mutual fund company or ETF sponsor
(through its website or by phone or mail). Your financial professional or broker can also provide you with a copy.
Purchase Fee—a shareholder fee that some mutual funds
charge when investors purchase mutual fund shares. Not the
same as (and may be in addition to) a front-end load.
Redemption Fee—a shareholder fee that some mutual
funds charge when investors redeem (or sell) mutual fund
shares within a certain time frame of purchasing the shares.
Redemption fees (which must be paid to the fund) are not the
same as (and may be in addition to) a back-end load (which is
typically paid to a broker). The SEC generally limits redemption
fees to 2%.
Sales Charge (or Load)—the amount that investors pay when
they purchase (front-end load) or redeem (back-end load)
shares in a mutual fund, similar to a brokerage commission.
Secondary Market—markets where existing securities are
bought and sold.
Shareholder Fees—fees charged directly to investors in
connection with particular investor transactions such as
buying, selling, or exchanging shares or periodically with
respect to account fees including sales loads, purchase or
redemption fees.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION | 51

Shareholder Service Fees—fees paid out of mutual fund or
ETF assets to persons to respond to investor inquiries and
provide investors with information about their investments.
See also 12b-1 fees.
Statement of Additional Information (SAI)—disclosure
document that provides information about a mutual fund or
ETF in addition to, and sometimes in more detail, than the
prospectus. Although mutual funds and ETFs are not required
to provide investors with the SAI, they must give investors the
SAI upon request and without charge.
Summary Prospectus—a disclosure document that summarizes key information for mutual funds and ETFs.
Total Annual Fund Operating Expense—the total of a
mutual fund’s or ETF’s annual fund operating expenses,
expressed as a percentage of the fund’s average net assets.
The total annual fund operating expenses is included in the
fund’s fee table in the prospectus.
Unit Investment Trust (UIT)—a type of investment company
that typically makes a one-time public offering of only a specific, fixed number of units. A UIT will terminate and dissolve
on a date established when the UIT is created (although some
may terminate more than fifty years after they are created).
UITs do not actively trade their investment portfolios.

52 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

54 | MUTUAL FUNDS AND ETFS

SEC Pub. 182 (12/16)
